adding pointers to rust crates (#129)
risc0/website: docs/explainers/proof-system/proof-system.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: ./
---

# Proof System Overview

> When a [method](https://github.com/risc0/risc0-rust-starter/blob/main/methods/guest/src/bin/method_name.rs) executes inside the RISC Zero [zkVM](https://github.com/risc0/risc0), the zkVM produces a computational [receipt](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/receipt/struct.Receipt.html) that consists of:

Reviewer: My understanding is that we're moving away from the "method" terminology. Perhaps something like "when the RISC Zero [zkVM] executes, it produces a computational [receipt]..."?

Author: That was my understanding as well, but the directory organization and the code are framed in terms of "methods." 

imo it doesn't make sense to strip that term from the docs until we strip it from the codebase

Author: i'll note that the language here is the same as the current website reference: https://www.risczero.com/docs/explainers/proof-system/

Reviewer: I guess this is ok, and we can fix it when we do the other renames & rewrites. But I don't think using the word "methods" here is any clearer or more accurate even in the status quo directory and code structure than talking about when a zkVM executes.

> When a [method](https://github.com/risc0/risc0-rust-starter/blob/main/methods/guest/src/bin/method_name.rs) executes inside the RISC Zero [zkVM](https://github.com/risc0/risc0), the zkVM produces a computational [receipt](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/receipt/struct.Receipt.html) that consists of:

Reviewer: zkVM should perhaps link to https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/

> - a [journal](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/receipt/struct.Receipt.html#structfield.journal), which contains the [public outputs](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/guest/env/fn.commit.html) of the computation, and

Reviewer: I'm a bit ambivalent about the extensive linking here ... the "journal" and "public outputs" in particular link to pretty short docs and feel a bit circular.

OTOH, we could leave the links in and expand the docs if they continue to feel inadequate...

Author: I think it'd make sense for this doc to just point to the `journal` documentation, but I think developers will immediately wonder "How do I write to the journal?"

Perhaps this doc could just point to `journal` and the `journal` documentation can indicate that `env::commit` is the way to write to the journal?

Reviewer: I like this approach

Author: kk great. I'll remove the link to env::commit and let you handle adjusting the crate documentation

- a [seal](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/receipt/struct.Receipt.html#structfield.seal), which is a [zk-STARK](../../reference-docs/about-starks.md). 

> Given a receipt and an [ImageID](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.MemoryImage.html#structfield.root), a skeptical third party can [verify](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/receipt/fn.verify_with_hal.html) the purported output of the computation. 

Reviewer: `verify_with_hal` is  the lower-level underlying function, the verify functions on the Receipt object are more what we want devs using the zkVM to work with.

```suggestion
Given a receipt and an [ImageID](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/struct.MemoryImage.html#structfield.root), a skeptical third party can [verify](https://docs.rs/risc0-zkvm/latest/risc0_zkvm/receipt/struct.Receipt.html#method.verify) the purported output of the computation. 
```

## Learn More
### About the zkVM
- [Video Explainer from zkHack](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8hwY88xJoyM&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCgig7ofeARMPwQ8vbuD6hC5&index=8)
- [Written Explainer](../zkvm/zkvm_overview.md)

### About the Proof System

> - [Formal Proof System Spec](https://www.risczero.com/proof-system-in-detail.pdf)

Reviewer: "Spec" feels like a more engineering-y document than the proof-system-in-detail document is. It gives me the impression of something that gives data types and layouts and error codes etc, not something that gives proofs.

I'm less certain about what I'd rename it to, though. "Proof System Mathematics"?

Author: How about "Proof System Whitepaper"?

- [Prover-Verifier Sequence Diagram](proof-system-sequence-diagram.md)
- STARK by hand
  - [Website version](constructing-a-seal.md)
  - [Google Sheet version](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Onr41OozD62y-B0jIL7bHAH5kf771-o4xvmnHUFpOyo/edit?usp=sharing) 
  - [Printable Version](assets/fibonacci-stark.pdf)
 

### Helpful Background

> [RISC Zero Study Club](https://www.risczero.com/studyclub) is intended to help make the technology underpinning RISC Zero more accessible. Past sessions include: 

Reviewer: Could this be rewritten as a relative link?
